.TH NCG 1 "" "" "Netomata, Inc."
.SH NAME
ngc \- Netomata Config Generator
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B ncg 
.RB [ \-v | \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-k | \-\-keys ]
.RB [ \-d | \-\-dump ]
.RB [ \-h | \-\-help ]
.I file [...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ncg
generates config files for network devices and services described
by 
.B .neto
format file(s).

.B ncg
parses the file(s) (in 
.B .neto
format) specified by the
.I file ...
argument(s)
to build an internal model of a network, and then 
generates a config file for each node in the resulting
network model which has a
.B ncg_output
tag defined for it (which specifies the file where the node's config should
be written to, creating or overwriting the file as necessary),
using the template file (in
.BR .ncg
format)
specified by the node's
.B ncg_template
tag. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-v " or " \-\-verbose                   
Enable verbose mode, causing
.B ncg
to emit comments about what it is doing as it proceeds.
.TP
.BR \-k " or " \-\-keys
Print a list of all keys defined within the model, then exit without generating any config files.
.TP
.BR \-d " or " \-\-dump
Print the fully-parsed data structure defined by the model, then exit without
generating any config files.
.TP
.BR \-h " or " \-\-help
Print a help message and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.P
.B ncg
doesn't look for anything special in the environment, beyond
what the standard Ruby interpreter looks for (see 
.BR ruby (1)).

.SH HISTORY
.P
.B ncg
was originally written in 2008 by Brent Chapman of Netomata, Inc.

.SH BUGS
.P
Probably.  Please report any you find by email to bugs@netomata.com.

.SH AUTHOR
Brent Chapman <brent@netomata.com> of Netomata, Inc.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2008 Netomata, Inc.
.PP
All Rights Reserved.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ncg(5), neto(5).
